 
 
Memorandum 
DATE: January 14, 2026 
TO:  Honorable Mayor and City Council  
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Nathan Ullyot, Director, Parks and Recreation 
  Matt Brezina, Parks Manager 
DEPT:  Parks and Recreation     
SUBJECT: Park Vandalism Update 
The purpose of this memo is to inform City officials of a recent string of vandalism which 
occurred at multiple parks across the city over the past week.  A combination of graffiti and 
structure damage were found by Park Rangers, Park Maintenance Staff, and City Security, 
contributing to significant labor and materials costs.  Exhibit A contains photographs of the 
damage incurred.   
Oxbow Nature Study Area Vandalism: 
On Thursday, January 1, 2026, at approximately 3:35 a.m. surveillance video at Oxbow Nature 
Study Area captured footage of a vehicle running into the closed access gate at the entrance of 
the park.  The impact bent the frame of the gate and damaged the locking mechanism.  The 
incident was reported by City Security, and the gate was repaired by City staff on Monday, 
January 5, 2026. 
Double Diamond Park Vandalism: 
On Friday, January 1, 2026, park maintenance staff discovered damage to the restroom building 
at Double Diamond Park.  It appears individuals attempted to gain access to the winterized and 
locked restroom units by damaging the doors.  The locks were forced open and taped to prevent 
them relocking, the automatic closing mechanism and hinges were removed, and propane heaters 
were found inside the unit. Staff believe the building was being used for temporary shelter.  Park 
Maintenance staff secured the doors to prevent immediate access and are working on door 
modifications to prevent this type of vandalism in the future.   
  

 
 
Horseman’s Park Vandalism: 
On the morning of January 2, 2026, Allied Security discovered a broken clothes donation box at 
Horseman’s Park. The contents appeared to have been stolen reportedly by individuals in a 
brown Chevy Blazer. Allied Security was unable to obtain the Nevada license plate number as 
the vehicle drove off upon their arrival.  Staff will contact the donation center to address the 
damage. 
Teglia’s Paradise Park Restroom: 
On Saturday, January 3, 2026, Park Rangers performed a routine inspection of the restroom near 
the playground in the northwest corner of Teglia’s Paradise Park. They found one of the two 
interior stalls severely burned by a fire.  The fire appeared to have started on the baby changing 
station, which is a complete loss, and flames and smoke caused damage throughout the unit.  The 
rest of the interior amenities were unharmed, but significant decontamination and cleaning is 
needed before the restroom is usable again.    
Barbara Bennett Park Graffiti: 
During regular maintenance on Monday, January 5, 2026, staff found spray paint graffiti on the 
unpainted back side of the basketball court mural wall.  An online police report was filed, and the 
Graffiti Abatement Team immediately painted over it. 
Idlewild Park Graffiti: 
During routine maintenance on Monday, January 5, 2026, staff found spray paint graffiti on the 
monument park sign near the east entrance of Idlewild Park.  An online police report was filed, 
and the Parks Maintenance staff immediately painted over the graffiti.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Exhibit A: Pictures of Graffiti and Vandalism  
Oxbow Nature Study Gate Vandalism
 
  

 
 
Double Diamond Park Door Vandalism 
 

 
 
Teglia’s Paradise Park Restroom Fire 
 
 
 

 
 
Barbara Bennett Park Wall Graffiti
 
  

 
 
Idlewild Park Sign Graffiti 
 
