 
 
Memorandum 
DATE: February 6, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council  
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Jesse Puett, Labor Relations Manager 
  Monica Kirch, Interim Human Resources Director 
DEPT:  Human Resources     
SUBJECT: February 11, 2026 City Council Meeting – Item C.6 Correction 
A Simons Hall Johnston, PC agreement for labor negotiations services is on the February 11, 
2026 City Council meeting agenda as item C.6. The agreement attached to the item at the time of 
posting was not the correct agreement.  
The correct agreement is attached. This change does not impact the February 11, 2026 agenda 
item. 
Attachment: Revised Professional Services Agreement for Labor Negotiations Services 

City of Reno Nevada Professional Services Agreement 
AGREEMENT FOR LABOR NEGOTIATIONS SERVICES 
This AGREEMENT FOR Labor Negotiations Services (“Agreement”) is entered into this _____ 
day of ___________________, 2026 by and between  Simons Hall Johnston PC whose address is 690 
Sierra Rose Drive, Reno, NV 89511 hereinafter referred to as the (“ CONSULTANT”); and the City of 
Reno, a municipal corporation in the State of Nevada, whose address is One East First Street, Reno, 
Nevada 89501 and hereinafter referred to as the (“CITY”). 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, City has a need for Labor Negotiations Services to conduct labor negotiations; and 
WHEREAS, it has been determined that CONSULTANT is duly qualified and experienced in the 
performance of said services; and 
WHEREAS, CITY desires to retain the services of CONSULTANT; and 
NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the aforesaid recitals, which are incorporated by 
reference into this Agreement, the parties mutually agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
SCOPE OF SERVICES TO BE PERFORMED BY CONSULTANT 
1.1 Specific Services: CONSULTANT agrees to provide services and deliverables related to 
labor negotiations.  
1.2 Changes of Scope of Work:  No substantial changes to the scope of services may be made 
without prior written approval of both CITY and CONSULTANT. 
1.3 Principal-in-Charge: It is agreed and understood by CITY and CONSULTANT that 
CONSULTANT will be the principal in charge of the work related to labor negotiations. Any changes to 
the principal-in-charge shall be subject to written approval by CITY. 
ARTICLE II 
TERM OF AGREEMENT 
2.1 Term of Agreement:   This Agreement shall be effective commencing April 1, 2026 
through April 1, 2027 unless otherwise terminated or extended.  The Agreement will run for one year.  
ARTICLE III 
COMPENSATION TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
3.1 Compensation & Reimbursement: The hourly rate for services performed shall be 
established by CONSULTANT from time-to-time for its services.  These rates range from $165 per hour 
for administrative support services, to $375 per hour for Associates.  The hourly rate for ANTHONY 
HALL is $475.  CONSULTANT shall notify the City Manager, JACKIE BRYANT, or her designee, of 
 
 
any changes in rates. These services shall not include legal services. 
 
In addition, if events or circumstances are encountered that result in a modification to the scope of the 
engagement, cost adjustments may be required.  However, any proposed cost adjustments will be 
discussed in detail and negotiated with the City’s Director of Finance and subject to final approval by the 
City’s Director of Finance.  
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the total maximum compensation 
to be paid for the satisfactory accomplishment and completion of all services to be performed hereunder 
shall in no event exceed the sum of one-hundred thousand dollars and no cents ($100,000.00). 
 
3.2 Method of Payment:  The manner of payment for the duration of the Agreement shall be 
as follows: 
 
(a) CONSULTANT shall submit to the CITY monthly invoices based on the actual 
services rendered; 
 
(b) As a condition precedent to any payment to CONSULTANT under this Agreement, 
CONSULTANT shall submit monthly to the CITY a statement of account which 
clearly sets forth by dates the designated items of work for which the billing is 
submitted and the purchase order number that has been assigned for this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) Original billing invoices should be addressed to: 
 
City of Reno 
Attention:  Accounts Payable 
P.O. Box 1900 
Reno, NV  89505 
 
(d) CONSULTANT shall receive payments from the CITY based upon approved invoices 
within thirty (30) days of CITY receipt of invoice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
GUARANTEE/WARRANTY 
 
4.1 CONSULTANT shall replace and or redo, at no cost to the City of Reno, any products or 
services purchased under this Agreement, if that product/service is deemed unacceptable for any 
reason resulting from deviations from the specifications contained herein, or as a result of improper 
procedures, and/or improper handling by CONSULTANT. 
 
ARTICLE V 
OBLIGATIONS OF CITY 
 
5.1 CITY Responsibilities:     Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, the CITY shall be 
responsible for the following: 
 
(a) The CITY agrees to have staff available to discuss, determine, and provide direction 
on labor issues. 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 CITY Principal Contact: The CITY shall designate in writing a staff person to act as the 
CITY’s principal contact with respect to the CONSULTANT for services to be performed under this 
Agreement, and such person shall have complete authority to transmit instructions, receive information, 
interpret and define the CITY’s policies and decisions with respect to services covered by this Agreement. 
 
5.3  Special Services:  No additional services shall be performed and no additional 
compensation shall be permitted without a City approved written supplemental agreement. This 
supplemental agreement must be approved by the City’s Finance Director, City Manager or City Council 
depending on the signatory authority required. Further, such supplemental agreement must be executed 
prior to the commencement or performance of any additional work. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
OBLIGATIONS OF CONSULTANT 
 
 6.1 Performance: CONSULTANT agrees to devote the time necessary to complete 
performance of the above described services covered under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT is not 
precluded hereunder from representing or performing services for and being employed by other persons 
or companies, provided that such services do not create a conflict of interest relative to the CITY.   
 
6.2 Assignment: Neither this Agreement nor any duties or obligations, including the right to 
receive payment, under this Agreement may be assigned by CONSULTANT without the prior consent of 
the CITY. 
 
 6.3 Compliance: CONSULTANT shall, at their own expense, obtain and pay for all licenses, 
permits or fees and agree to observe and comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and 
regulations, including but not limited to, compliance with State of Nevada Workers’ Compensation laws 
and City of Reno business license requirements.  
 
 6.4 Independent Contractor:     The parties understand and agree that CONSULTANT is an 
independent contractor as recognized under Nevada law.  Accordingly, with respect to the 
CONSULTANT, the CITY will NOT: 
 
a) Withhold any income taxes; 
 b) Provide workers’ compensation coverage; 
c) Provide group insurance plans which may be available to CITY employees;  
d) Participate or contribute by either the independent contractor or the CITY to the 
public employees’ retirement system; 
 e) Provide for vacation leave or sick leave; or 
 f) Approve or authorize unemployment compensation coverage. 
 
6.5 Worker’s Compensation Insurance:  As required by the laws of the State of Nevada, 
Consultant shall carry during the term of this Agreement, Worker’s Compensation Insurance under the 
laws of the State of Nevada, to cover any compensable injuries or diseases arising during the performance 
of this Agreement.   Specifically, Consultant shall comply with the provisions of NRS Chapters 616A, 
616B, 616C regarding Industrial Insurance, and NRS Chapters 617 and 618 regarding Occupational 
Diseases, Safety and Health. 
 
 
 
6.6 Insurance: CONSULTANT shall maintain comprehensive general liability coverage 
for limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) for bodily injury and property damages, per 
occurrence during the term of this Agreement. The City to be an additional insured with thirty (30) day 
notice of termination requirement for reasons other than non-payment of premium and at least ten (10) 
days for non-payment of premium. Automobile coverage of no less than $1,000,000 combined single limit 
per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  No aggregate limit may apply. CONSULTANT shall 
also maintain during the term of this Agreement professional liability insurance in the amount of not less 
than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) per claim and Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) aggregate. As 
evidence of insurance coverage, the CITY will accept certification of insurance by an authorized 
representative of the insurance carrier.  Each certificate will bear a thirty (30) day written notice of 
cancellation to the CITY for reasons other than non-payment of premium and at least ten (10) days for 
non-payment of premium. Certificates of insurance should be delivered to the office of the Risk Manager 
c/o Reno City Attorney’s Office, at; 1 E. 1st Street, Reno, NV 89501, or mailed to: P.O. Box 1900, Reno, 
NV 89505.  
ARTICLE VII 
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SERVICES 
 
7.1 Notice and Termination: This Agreement and all services to be rendered hereunder may be 
terminated at any time upon thirty (30) days written notice from either party.  In such event, all finished 
and unfinished documents, project data and reports shall become CITY property and shall be delivered to 
it or to any party it may designate.  In the event of such termination, CONSULTANT shall be paid for the 
work actually performed prior to the effective date of termination, plus any agreed on work required for 
closing the services.  
 
7.2 Cancellation may occur in the event the type, quality and/or work is unsatisfactory to the 
City of Reno.  In the event CONSULTANT does not perform in an acceptable and/or satisfactory 
manner or is in default for whatever reason, the City of Reno reserves the right to cancel the 
Agreement and to procure the product(s) or service from other sources and hold the contractor 
responsible for any excess cost occasioned thereby. 
 
7.3 In the event CONSULTANT shall default or is terminated for default, they shall be 
recommended to the Reno City Council, for debarment from doing business with the City of Reno 
for at least one (1) year after the termination of the term of the defaulted agreement. 
 
7.4   In the event the City of Reno fails to obligate requisite funds for the ensuing fiscal year(s) 
for payment of amounts due against this Agreement, necessitating cancellation of this Agreement, 
CONSULTANT shall agree to hold the City of Reno free from any charge or penalty.   
 
ARTICLE VIII 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 8.1 Entire Agreement: This Agreement supersedes any and all agreements, either oral or 
written between the parties hereto with respect to rendering of services by CONSULTANT for the CITY 
and contains all of the covenants and agreements between the parties with respect to the rendering of such 
services in any manner whatsoever.  Each party of this Agreement acknowledges that no representation, 
inducements, promises, or agreements orally or otherwise have been made by any party that are not 
embodied herein, and that no other agreement, statement or promise not contained in this Agreement shall 
be valid or binding.  Any modification of this Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed 
by the parties to this Agreement. 
 
 
  
8.2 Nondiscrimination. In connection with the performance of work under this Contract, the 
Consultant shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of age, race, 
creed, religion, color, veteran status, sex, sexual orientation (means having or being perceived as having 
an orientation for heterosexuality, homosexuality, or bi-sexuality), gender identity or gender expression 
(means a gender-related identity, appearance, expression, or behavior of a person regardless of the person's 
assigned sex at birth), physical condition, disability, national origin, or any other protected class status 
applicable under federal, state or local law, rule or regulation.  Race includes traits associated with race, 
including, without limitation, hair texture and protective hairstyles.  Any violation of this provision shall 
constitute a material breach of contract.   
 
8.3 Approvals. Whenever this Agreement calls for City approval, consent, or waiver, the 
written approval, consent, or waiver of the City’s Director of Finance shall constitute the approval, 
consent, or waiver of the City, without further authorization required from the City Council. Where this 
Agreement specifically refers to City Council, then City Council approval, consent or waiver is required.  
The City hereby authorizes the foregoing persons to deliver such approvals or consents as are required by 
this Agreement, or to waive requirements under this Agreement, on behalf of the City.  
 
8.4 Waiver: The waiver by either party of a breach or violation of any provision of this 
Agreement will not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of any subsequent breach thereof. 
 
 8.5 Records: CONSULTANT’S books, documents, papers and records (“Records”) 
specifically relating to this Agreement shall be open for inspection and subject to audit, examination, 
excerpts and transactions, during working hours by the CITY, Reno City Attorney, the City’s Finance 
Department, or any of their duly authorized representatives at the expense of the CITY.  CONSULTANT 
shall maintain all Records for four (4) years after the date of final payment and close of all other pending 
matters. 
 
8.6 Indemnification:    
 
(a) To the fullest extent permitted by law, CONSULTANT shall assume the defense of, 
indemnify and hold harmless the CITY and its officers, agents, employees, and 
volunteers (collectively “Indemnitees”) from and against any claim, loss, damage, 
injury (including, without limitation, injury to or death of an employee of the 
CONSULTANT or its sub-consultants) and liability of every kind, nature and 
description (including without limitation, incidental and consequential damages, court 
costs, attorneys’ fees and costs of investigation) that arise directly or indirectly, in 
whole or in part, from: (1) the services under this Agreement, or any part thereof, (2) 
any act or omission of CONSULTANT, and sub-consultants to the CONSULTANT, 
anyone directly or indirectly employed by it, agents of CONSULTANT, or anyone that 
they control (collectively “Liabilities”), even if such Liabilities are caused in part by 
the negligence of any indemnitee, subject to the provisions set forth below in this 
section. 
 
(b) CONSULTANT assumes no liability for the sole negligence or willful misconduct of 
Indemnitees.  
(c) CONSULTANT’s indemnification obligations for claims involving “Professional 
Liability” (claims involving acts, error, or omissions in the rendering of professional 
services) and “Economic Loss Only” (claims involving economic loss which are not 
 
 
connected with bodily injury or physical damage to property) shall be limited to the 
proportionate extent of Consultant’s negligence or other breach of duty. 
 
(d) Any and all Federal, State and local taxes, charges, fees, or contributions required by 
law to be paid with respect to CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement 
(including, without limitation, unemployment insurance, social security, business 
license taxes, and income taxes) shall be CONSULTANT’s sole liability. 
 
 8.7 Governing Law:  This Agreement shall be administered and interpreted under the laws of 
the State of Nevada.  If any part of this Agreement is found to be in conflict with applicable laws, such 
part shall be inoperative, null and void insofar as it is in conflict with said laws, but the remainder of this 
Agreement shall be in full force and effect.  Any action at law, suit or equity or judicial proceeding for the 
enforcement of this Agreement or any provision thereof shall be instituted in a court of competent 
jurisdiction located in Washoe County, Nevada.  
  
8.8 Drafting:  This Agreement shall not be construed for or against a party by virtue of which 
party drafted the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be construed and 
interpreted under the laws of the State of Nevada.  
  
8.9 Arbitration:  Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the 
breach thereof, provided both parties agree, may be settled by arbitration in accordance with the 
Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association and judgment upon the award 
rendered by the Arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. 
 
8.10 Limited Liability:  The parties will not waive and intend to assert available defenses and 
limitations contained in Chapter 41 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. Contract liability of both parties shall 
not be subject to punitive damages. Actual damages for any City breach shall never exceed the amount of 
funds which have been appropriated for payment under this Agreement, but not yet paid, for the fiscal 
year budget in existence at the time of the breach. 
 
8.11 Bankruptcy:  In the event either party applies for or consents to the appointment of a 
receiver, trustee, or liquidator of itself or of all or a substantial part of its assets, files a voluntary petition 
in bankruptcy, admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, make a general 
assignment for the benefit of creditors, files a petition or an answer in seeking a reorganization or 
arrangement with creditors or, as a debtor, invoke or takes advantage of the provisions of any insolvency 
law, including without limitation any provision of the United States Bankruptcy Act, or any proceeding 
in any court is instituted seeking to adjudicate either party as a debtor, bankrupt or insolvent, and the same 
shall not be dismissed or discharged within thirty (30) days after notice thereof given to the appropriate 
party, the other party may by unilateral notice terminate this Agreement effective on any future date 
specified in such notice.  
 
8.12 Notices:  All notices, requests, demands and other communications which are required or 
permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly 
given upon the delivery by registered mail, certified mail, return receipt requested, or Federal Express, as 
follows: 
 
CITY:      CITY OF RENO 
      Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
      One East First Street, 9 th Floor 
 
 
      Reno, Nevada 89501  
 
With copy to:  Reno City Attorney 
      P.O. Box 1900 
      Reno, Nevada 89505 
 
CONSULTANT:       Simons Hall Johnston, PC 
Anthony Hall 
      690 Sierra Rose Drive 
      Reno, NV 89511 
 
A change in the designation of the person or address to which submittals, requests, notices and reports 
shall be delivered is effective when the other party has received notice of the change by certified mail. 
 
 8.13 Authorization to Sign:  The parties hereby warrant that the persons executing this 
Agreement are authorized to execute this Agreement and are authorized to obligate the respective parties 
to perform this Agreement. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page Follows] 
 
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed and intend 
to be legally bound thereby. 
Executed on this ___ day of ________ , 2026. 
CITY: CONSULTANT: 
CITY OF RENO, NEV ADA Simons Hall Johnston, PC 
By: Hillary Schieve, Mayor �Hall 
Title: Partner 
Dated: ------------
ATTEST: 
Mikki Huntsman, City Clerk 
APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM: 
Deputy City Attorney 