Memorandum 
DATE: February 11, 2026  
TO:  Honorable Mayor and Council  
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Nic Ciccone, Government Affairs Manager 
  Calli Wilsey, Policy and Strategy Director 
DEPT:  Office of Policy & Strategy     
SUBJECT: FY 2026 Federal Appropriations for the City of Reno (Community Project 
Funding Requests Update) 
President Donald Trump signed a spending package on Tuesday, February 3 to fund federal 
government operations and programs through September 2026. Congress passed the package of 
appropriations bills earlier on Tuesday. The approved bills include direct funding to government 
and nonprofit entities for specific projects through the Community Project Funding (CPF) 
process, formerly referred to as earmarks. 
 
With the support and advocacy of Senators Cortez Masto and Rosen as well as Congressman 
Amodei, the City is set to receive several million dollars for various projects outlined below.  
 
Project Award 
Reno Police Department – Real Time Information Center  $1,200,000 
Evelyn Mount Northeast Community Center – Wellness Remodel  $3,000,000 
Total $4,200,000 
Additionally, several infrastructure projects in Reno will benefit from awards to the City’s 
regional partners, RTC Washoe and the City of Sparks. 
• RTC Washoe partnered with the City of Reno, the City of Sparks, and Washoe County to 
develop a joint $6,000,000 proposal to fund local street rehabilitation projects – 
$2,000,000 will go towards the Marsh Avenue and Sharon Way neighborhood street 
rehabilitation project.  

• The City of Sparks received an award of $3,773,000 for phase one design and 
construction services to acquire backup power systems for the Truckee Meadows Water 
Reclamation Facility, a shared facility between Reno and Sparks. 
Summary of City of Reno Awards 
Reno Police Department – Real Time Information Center 
The City of Reno Police Department’s Real Time Information Center (RTIC) project will allow 
the Reno Police Department to purchase equipment and software to further enhance the center’s 
ability to embrace intelligence-led policing, provide enhanced information for response or 
deterrence of calls for service, increased investigatory capability, and overall greater public 
safety. The proposal to allocate funding for the establishment of a RTIC heralds a significant 
technological advancement with far-reaching implications for law enforcement operations and 
public safety. By centralizing data sources and providing real-time situational awareness, the 
RTIC stands to revolutionize the department’s ability to respond effectively to incidents and 
protect the community it serves. 
Strategic Plan Goal: Public Safety  
CPF Requested Amount: $1,200,000  
CPF Award Amount: $1,200,000 
Evelyn Mount Northeast Community Center – Wellness Remodel 
The proposed project includes the modification and remodeling of the aging Evelyn Mount 
Northeast Community Center to establish a comprehensive whole health and wellness hub 
catering to the diverse needs of youth, families, and seniors. Located in an area lacking access to 
these services, this request seeks to modify the center into a vibrant space offering a wide array 
of amenities and services aimed at fostering physical, mental, and social well-being. The remodel 
will modify the north wing of the facility to allow increased capacity for wellness programming. 
The project will remove or modify walls, flooring, HV AC ducts, plumbing, and electrical. 
Strategic Plan Goal: Economic & Community Development; Arts, Parks, and Historical 
Resources 
CPF Requested Amount: $3,150,000 
CPF Award Amount: $3,000,000 