 
 
Memorandum 
DATE: February 18, 2026 
TO:  Honorable Mayor and Council  
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Cynthia Esparza, Director 
  Izabella Baumann, Senior Engagement Coordinator 
DEPT:  Community Engagement and Services     
SUBJECT: Vintage at the Crossings Community Meeting Update 
The purpose of this memo is to provide an update regarding Vintage at the Crossings 
Apartments, a senior housing community located at 11565 Old Virginia Road, in response to 
public comments raised at the January 14, 2026, Reno City Council.  
The public comment focused on concerns regarding property conditions and management. 
Council requested community meeting to be scheduled, along with a letter summarizing these 
concerns and request support from the following offices: Attorney General Ford, Senator Rosen, 
Senator Cortez Masto, Congressman Amodei, and Northern Nevada Legal Aid.  
February 10 Community Meeting  
A community meeting was held on Tuesday, February 10, 2026, from 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. in the 
community room at the Vintage at the Crossings. The meeting was attended by 105 individuals, 
including representatives from the Attorney General’s Office, Senator Cortez Masto’s Office, 
Senator Rosen’s Office, Northern Nevada Legal Aid, and Council members. 
The meeting was coordinated and facilitated by the Community Engagement and Services 
Department, and staff from Reno Direct, Code Enforcement, Reno Fire Department’s Fire 
Prevention division, and Housing and Neighborhood Development were present. Asset Living, 
who acquired FPI Property Management, and Vintage leadership were also present and supported 
resident outreach and meeting logistics.  
Meeting Summary 

 
 
The meeting included a review of previously submitted comments, opportunities for attendees to 
submit questions and feedback, an interactive session to share meeting goals, and an open Q&A. 
Residents emphasized a desire for constructive and solution-focused dialogue.  
During the meeting, Asset Living and staff addressed several items and provided updates. 
Discussion items also included a Code Enforcement overview of the 14-day notice process, 
Northern Nevada Legal Aid summarized tenant rights, and alarm protocols were addressed by 
the Reno Fire Department. Key concerns raised and discussed included: 
• Residents smoking inside the building 
• Communication channels with residents, including bulletins on site and notifications 
during fire alarms 
• Maintenance issues and building-related requests 
• Resident speeding on the property and requests for speed bumps 
• Accessibility at entry doors and the desire for additional automatic doors 
• Overflowing trash chutes 
• Payment issues regarding rent and late fees 
• Requests for additional ADA-compliant parking spaces 
• Concerns of retaliation when matters are reported 
Many residents also expressed their approval of the facilities, staffing, security team, and overall 
living experience at this complex.  
Likewise, several residents reported experiencing unwelcoming behavior and intimidation from 
other residents and were encouraged to report any incidents to management or, if in imminent 
danger, to local law enforcement. 
Meeting Action Items 
Asset Living and Vintage staff have received the meeting notes and expressed commitment to 
proactively addressing the identified concerns. In response to the concerns raised, staff outlined 
the following actions and commitments: 
• Inspection of air filters and smoke alarms within the next 30 days 
• Water sediment testing 
• Addressing work orders within 72 hours 
• Rescheduling meetings between staff and residents within two weeks 
• Adding additional staff to monitor trash chutes and ensure timely trash removal 
• Providing updates at an upcoming City Council meeting 
Currently, there is one active service request at this property and staff will continue to address 
matters as they arise. Community Engagement and Services will also be following up with a 
resident to review reported outstanding service requests and provide an overview of the Reno 
Direct process.  