 
 
Memorandum 
DATE: February 18, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Suzanne Groneman, Environmental Services Manager 
  Cynthia Esparza, Director 
DEPT:  Community Engagement & Services    
SUBJECT: Waste Management Contract and Billing Clarifications 
At the February 11, 2026, meeting of the Reno City Council, Council requested clarification of 
the following matters related to Waste Management: 
• Audit Procedures 
• Mobile Home Billings 
• Periodic Review Status 
 
Franchise Agreement Audit Procedures 
Under the Waste Management franchise agreements, the City can initiate a formal audit through 
a third party at its discretion and cost. The number of audits cannot exceed two (2) during the 
base term, and one (1) during any extension term. The base term ends in November 2029. The 
City has exercised its review option (explained below) every 5 years, in accordance with the 
contract, but has not exercised its audit option since prior to 2018. Waste Management 
representatives are supportive of the audit, which can begin upon direction from staff. 
 
Mobile Home Billings 
Council presented a concern that mobile home billings were based on city zoning. However, 
under the Waste Management agreements, mobile home communities have the ability to select 
from one of three models: 
 
Option 1: Commercial Service (One Container, One Bill) 
The community may opt for a shared dumpster with one consolidated bill for the entire 
property. 
 
Option 2: Standard Residential Service (Individual Customer Accounts) 

 
 
Each household may subscribe directly to Waste Management as an individual residential 
customer. In this model, every resident receives a bill, receives full residential service 
(trash, recycling, excess-waste stickers, and four annual dumps), and pays the standard 
residential rate associated with their cart size. Some households may qualify for senior 
discounts.  
 
Option 3: Master Billed Residential Service (Community Managed Billing) 
A property owner or community manager may choose to have all units billed together 
under a single master account. WM creates sub-accounts for each unit to track service; all 
units receive the same service level, and the master account is billed at franchise 
residential rates. Billing is based on 90% occupancy of living spaces. Units may qualify 
for senior, low-income senior, or side yard service rates with verification. The property 
owner/manager distributes excess stickers and transfer station passes to residents and 
verifies tenancy for use. 
 
Periodic Review Status 
In June of 2025, staff initiated a comprehensive periodic review of Waste Management’s 
operations and services. The review occurs every five years for two years and is a standard part 
of our agreement. This presents an opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness, affordability, and 
sustainability of the solid waste and recycling services provided to our community. The review 
period ends in June 2027. 
 
Waste Management Review Process Objective  
Ensure the services provided under this agreement are cost-effective, reliable, and reflective of 
community values. 
Focus Area Analysis Description Status 
Fees, Rates, and 
Services 
Evaluate current fee structure and 
level of service to ensure they align 
with community expectations, industry 
standards, and cost efficiency.   
Staff reviewed the franchise 
agreements, ordinances, 
service levels compared to 
other jurisdictions, rates, and 
fees. Initial findings show 
services are like those in 
Washoe County and Sparks, 
rates are set slightly lower than 
in Washoe County, and 
ordinance updates are needed. 
An ordinance to repeal Title 5, 
Sec. 5.90.070 was referred for 
a second reading and potential 
adoption on February 25. The 
repeal will remove outdated, 
duplicated, And contradictory 
language. Franchise fees are 
set below Sparks and Incline 
 
 
Village, and are the same as 
Washoe County (prior to 
Council action on 2/11/26) 
Benchmarking 
with Other 
Jurisdictions 
Rates and services comparison offered 
in similar cities to identify potential 
improvements or innovations in 
service delivery.  
In progress. 
Reno Direct Calls 
& Customer 
Service 
Data from Reno Direct will be 
reviewed to identify trends in 
customer service issues, such as 
missed pickups or service disruptions, 
and evaluate how issues have been 
resolved.  
High-level Reno Direct Data is 
included in the Quarterly 
Report Memo to the City 
Council. An in-depth analysis 
is in progress. 
Recycling 
Performance 
Review of recycling rates to help 
determine whether current programs 
are effective and what changes might 
be necessary to increase diversion 
from landfill.  
In progress. 
Missed Pickups 
and Resolution 
Rates 
An assessment of service reliability 
and the responsiveness of Waste 
Management to customer concerns.  
Not started. 
Composting 
Survey Results 
Analysis of a recent composting 
survey that closed to better understand 
community interest and the feasibility 
of expanding composting services.  
Survey responses show strong 
community support for 
composting services in the 
Community. Over 91% of 
respondents expressed interest 
in using compost, and more 
than 73% said they would 
consider paying for a pickup 
service for green and food 
waste, depending on the cost. 
The findings also point to a 
need for broader education.  
Review of Other 
Jurisdictions’ 
Contracts 
Review of partner agencies to inform 
any potential changes or 
improvements to our own agreement.  
In progress. 
ESG 
(Environmental, 
Social, and 
Governance) 
Reporting 
Evaluate Waste Management’s ESG 
data to understand their operational 
sustainability and alignment with 
Reno’s environmental goals.  
Waste Management ESG goals 
include reducing absolute 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions 42% by 2031 
(science-based target), target 
beneficial use of 65% of 
 
 
captured landfill gas by 2026, 
increase recovery of materials 
by 60% to 25M tons per year 
by 2030, including an interim 
milestone of a 25% increase by 
2025, and to produce 
Renewable Natural Gas from 
some landfills fuels to fuel a 
portion of their fleet. 
Operational 
Interviews 
Conduct interviews with Waste 
Management’s operations personnel to 
assess field-level challenges and 
identify opportunities for 
improvement.  
Not started. 
Transfer Station 
Utilization 
A focused review to understand the 
current underutilization of the 
allowance at the transfer station and 
explore ways to improve efficiency 
and community access.  
In progress, but initial findings 
indicate underutilization of the 
transfer station allowance, so 
Staff is working with 
departments to resolve.  
Complaint 
Resolution 
Performance 
Review process and timeliness of 
complaint resolution to ensure 
responsiveness, accountability, and 
practices are meeting community 
needs.  
Ongoing. 
Local Community 
Survey 
A survey to gauge public satisfaction 
with existing services and inform 
recommendations for the future. 
Similar survey to previous review 
process.  
Not started. 
 
 