 
 
Memorandum 
DATE: February 24, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Lance Ferrato, Director of Licensing and Code Enforcement 
Ashley Turney, Assistant City Manager 
DEPT:  Licensing and Code Enforcement Department   
SUBJECT: Ordinance Updates and Timelines 
This memorandum provides an update of the Licensing and Code Enforcement Department’s 
efforts to update several ordinances at Council’s direction. The topics below are listed in order of 
tentative appearance before Council.  
Nonprofit Organization Registration – Chapter 4.04 (Business Licensing) 
Date Initiated by Council: June 11, 2025 
 
Background: Historically, the registration and/or licensure of nonprofit organizations (NPOs) 
has been a topic of discussion in terms of city planning and public safety. Since NPOs are 
exempt from licensing, the Planning Division may not always have knowledge of an NPO’s 
existence and could potentially approve an incompatible use nearby. Similarly, applicable City 
staff is not always aware of the existence of these entities so they aren’t necessarily inspected 
and/or reviewed like a commercial business would be. For these reasons, Council requested that 
the topic be researched and outreach conducted. 
 
Council Direction: Conduct community outreach and return with a draft ordinance regulating 
the registration of nonprofit organizations.  
 
Current Status: Staff has held three stakeholder meetings (November 17, 18, and 20, 2025) and 
collected data through a survey. At this time, staff continues to organize data and stakeholder 
feedback to present to Council to get further direction on the item. 
Tentative Return to Council: March 11, 2026 

 
 
Property Maintenance Code Update – Chapter 14.05 (Code Enforcement) 
Date Initiated by Council: December 3, 2025 
 
Background: The City’s current property maintenance code was last updated in 2012 (2012 
edition); however, the International Code Council has updated the IPMC four times since then 
(2015, 2018, 2021 and 2024). Furthermore, in 2014, Council adopted an additional section to 
supplement the IPMC specifically addressing downtown property maintenance standards, which 
also has remained in its original form since adoption. 
 
Council Direction: Return with an ordinance introduction amending RMC Chapter 14.05 to 
reflect the 2024 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code including any regional 
modifications as discussed. 
 
Current Status: Staff continues to research best practices and meet with industry experts to 
determine the best options to include in the next adoption of the property maintenance code. 
 
Tentative Return to Council: April 2026 
 
Alcoholic Beverages – Chapter 5.07 (Business Licensing) 
 
Date Initiated by Council: March 29, 2023 
 
Background: The majority of Titles 4 and 5 were last revised in July of 1997. Since then, 
chapters and sections have been adopted, repealed, and amended, but the general framework has 
remained intact. After engaging with a consultant and preparing to bring a draft forward it was 
determined that, based upon community feedback, staff would step back and reevaluate a more 
effective strategy to get public input. Since then, staff has been analyzing chapters individually to 
ensure full transparency with the business community. 
 
Council Direction: Open and amend Titles 4 and 5 in their entirety. 
 
Current Status: In late 2024, staff began meeting weekly with a group of alcohol-based 
business owners and industry representatives to dissect Chapter 5.07 in its entirety. The chapter 
not only deals in alcohol regulation, but also live entertainment, which has been a topic of 
discussion with the Planning Division over this same timeframe. As the entertainment discussion 
continues, staff will continue to craft ordinance language and circle back with alcohol license 
stakeholders before returning to Council to discuss options.  
 
Tentative Return to Council: May 2026 