Memorandum 
DATE: March 5, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Cynthia Esparza, Director 
Kaytlin Canner, Clean and Safe Manager 
DEPT:  Community Engagement and Services 
SUBJECT: January 2026 Clean and Safe Team Homeless Actions and Outcomes 
The City of Reno continues to address homeless-related concerns and provide outreach to the 
unsheltered community within city limits through the Clean and Safe Team. This 
interdepartmental team plays a critical role in addressing the multifaceted challenges and 
community impacts associated with homelessness, while coordinating multiple concurrent efforts 
and programs to ensure a comprehensive, citywide response. 
Clean and Safe Team - Departments 
• Licensing and Code Enforcement
• Community Engagement and
Services – Clean and Safe, Reno
Direct
• City Manager’s Office - Security
• Housing and Neighborhood
Development
• Maintenance and Operations
• Parks and Recreation
• Reno Police – Community Action
and Outreach (CAO), Mobile
Engagement Team (MET), Parking
Enforcement
The following is an overview of January 2026 data, actions, outcomes, and updates from the 
team: 
January 2026 Key Highlights 
• 12 Community Engagement and
Outreach Efforts
• 25 Outreach Interactions
• 6 Individuals into Transitional
Housing
• 151 Citations
• 73 Arrests

• 2 Large Encampment Clean-Ups
• 17 Smaller Encampment Clean-Ups
• 161 Yards of Trash Collected
• 51 Occupied Vehicles Posted
• 10 Occupied Vehicles Towed
• 3 Park Exclusions
• 37 Code Enforcement Cases
• 96 Allied Security Site Visit
January Updates 
• 2026 Point-in-Time (PIT) Count: Clean and Safe, Reno Police Department, and Park
and River Rangers participated in the 2026 PIT Count on January 29. Most staff worked
4:00–9:00am in high-concentration inner-city zones. The Clean and Safe Outreach
Coordinator joined the Tier 3 team, focusing on larger outer-city areas, including Reno
outskirts and Sun Valley.
• Reno Housing Authority Motel Assistance Program: In January, Clean and Safe
Outreach facilitated 6 individuals into the Motel Assistance program. Clients are
currently awaiting longer term housing.
• Camera Mobile Trailers: Clean and Safe’s Mobile Camera Trailer Pilot Program is
ongoing. The mobile trailers continue to keep previously chronic areas clear and provide
an extra tool for staff to monitor. The trailers are currently installed at Spokane Street,
along the railroad and Galletti Way, along the railroad.
• Railroad Memorandum of Understanding (MOU): In December 2025, the City of
Reno and Karma Box Project established a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to
actively monitor and complete proactive maintenance services along the railroad corridor
from Record Street to Sutro Street. Over the last couple of months, this MOU has been
effective in maintaining the area and ensuring it remains clear and clean.
• Waste Management Donation: On January 14, Council approved a $53,141 donation
from Waste Management to support Clean and Safe maintenance efforts citywide.
• Karma Box Project Work Crew: The Karma Box Project Work Crew program
relaunched, helping address debris and maintain public spaces citywide. Deployment is
coordinated by the Clean and Safe.
• City of Reno and Nevada Department of Transportation Interlocal Agreement: On
January 28, Council approved an interlocal agreement between the City of Reno and
NDOT for maintenance and outreach efforts on NDOT rights-of-way in Reno city limits.
Community Engagement and Partnerships 
Multiple departments partake in standing or topic specific meetings with regional partners to 
help address homelessness, identify support, and advance collaborative, solution-oriented 
initiatives. January highlights are as follows:  
January Meeting Department Purpose and Outcomes 
January 6: Northern 
Nevada CoC 
Leadership Council 
Community Engagement 
and Services, Housing 
Neighborhood 
Development 
Support the CoC’s mission of ending 
homelessness in the region. 
January 7: Moana, 
Kietzke, Gentry 
Business Center 
Meeting 
Community Engagement 
and Services, Reno Police 
Department 
Topics discussed at this meeting included 
Reno Direct service requests, DEEDS 
operation, Loitering Program, and the 
Fusus Program. 
January 7: Washoe 
County Outreach 
Case Conferencing 
Community Engagement 
and Services, Housing and 
Neighborhood 
Development 
Two Clean and Safe outreach Safe Camp 
referrals approved. Unfortunately, move-in 
did not occur as clients were unable to be 
located within the move-in time frame. 
January 13: 
Downtown Reno 
Partnership Security 
and Safety 
Collaboration  
Code Enforcement, 
Community Engagement 
and Services, Reno Police 
Department 
Clean and Safe, Reno Police, and Code 
Enforcement meet with residents, casino 
staff, and other jurisdictions to discuss 
issues, upcoming events, and ongoing 
activities in the downtown corridor.   
January 16: City of 
Reno and Cares 
Campus 
Collaboration 
Community Engagement 
and Services, Housing and 
Neighborhood 
Development 
Review shelter clients’ housing plans for 
those with income and streamline efforts to 
transition them into permanent housing. 
Meetings launched in the Fall 2025.  
January 21: Washoe 
County Outreach 
Case Conferencing 
Community Engagement 
and Services, Housing and 
Neighborhood 
Development 
Two individuals were referred to Safe 
Camp and were approved by the outreach 
teams. One individual moved in on January 
22, and the other moved in on January 28. 
January 22: School of 
Public Health Street 
Health Collaborative 
Meeting 
Community Engagement 
and Services 
A monthly meeting with street outreach 
workers and community providers who 
convene to discuss homeless-related 
concerns, review programs, and share 
community resources.  
January 30: Outreach 
Connect - City of 
Reno, Cares Campus, 
and Downtown Reno 
Partnership 
Community Engagement 
and Services 
Clean and Safe, Cares Campus, and 
Downtown Reno Partnership staff met to 
discuss homeless-related efforts across all 
agencies. Each agency provided an 
overview of its operations and processes, 
and the group discussed how to better 
collaborate to address share concerns.  
Reno Direct Community Service Request Overview
January 2026 
Service Request Type Assigned Team # of Requests Percentage 
Homeless Concerns Clean and Safe 85 26.15% 
Trespassing on Private Property Code Enforcement 51 15.69% 
Camping in City Parks Parks Rangers 8 2.46% 
Camping on Truckee River River Rangers 15 4.62% 
Occupied Vehicle Nuisance Reno Police, Clean and Safe 166 51.08% 
Total 325 100% 
Month-over-Month Comparison 
Service Request Type December January Percentage Change 
Homeless Concerns 79 85 8% Increase 
Trespassing on Private Property 46 51 11% Increase 
Camping in City Parks 8 8 No Change 
Camping on Truckee River 8 15 88% Increase 
Occupied Vehicle Nuisance 129 166 29% Increase 
Total 270 325 20% Increase 
Outreach and Interactions 
Clean and Safe 
Interactions Housing 
Arrangements 
Shelter 
Arrangements 
Identification 
Replacements 
Family 
Reunification 
Resources 
Accessed 
25 6 3 0 2 10 
Outreach Interactions 
Location Individual 
Interactions 
Service 
Acceptance Outcomes 
Washoe County 
Regional Animal 
Services 
1 1 Transported client’s dog to Washoe County 
Regional Animal Services for surrender.  
Highland 
Avenue and 
Evans Avenue 
3 0 Individuals declined services. 
Railroad, from 
Record Street to 
Park Street 
2 0 Individuals declined services. 
Reno Housing 
Authority 1 1 
Collected check from Reno Housing 
Authority to pay for motel stay at Siegel 
Suites, through the Motel Assistance 
Program. 
6th Street and 
Elko Avenue 1 1 Assisted client with completing an application 
for Vitality and Women’s Crossroads.  
Railroad, from 
Record Street to 
Park Street 
2 0 Individuals declined services. 
4th Street and 
Evans Avenue 1 0 Returned personal property to individual. 
Greg Street 
Bridge 1 1 
Completed a CHAT (Collaborative Housing 
Assessment Tool) assessment. Met with an 
individual to discuss Safe Camp enrollment. 
The plan is to put him up for voting at next 
Safe Camp meeting on January 21.  
The client successfully moved into Safe 
Camp on January 28. 
Phone Call 1 0 
Spoke with a former client regarding their 
partner, who is currently unhoused in Reno 
and in need of support. The client is seeking 
assistance to help reunify their partner with 
them in Redding, California for a treatment 
program. The plan to locate the partner and 
discuss treatment options or reunification. 
Gardner Street 1 0 Individual declined services. 
Phone Call 1 1 
Extended the client’s motel stay and 
scheduled an appointment with V olunteers of 
America staff for the Rapid Rehousing 
Program.  
4th Street and 
Stoker Avenue 1 0 Arrived on site for scheduled UP clean up. 
Individual declined services.  
Highland 
Avenue and 
Evans Avenue 
1 0 
Arrived on site for scheduled clean-up. 
Individual declined services. 
West 4th Street 
and Del Curto 
Drive 
1 0 
Arrived on-site for scheduled clean-up. 
Individual declined services. 
Phone Call 1 1 
Client was referred to Clean and Safe for the 
Motel Assistance Program. Client seeking 
temporary shelter as they were awaiting a unit 
at the Lucky Motel through Veterans Affairs 
(VA) with a HUD-VASH voucher. 
Coordinated a one-week placement at the 
Econo Lodge.  
City Hall 1 0 
Client came to City Hall to ask about their 
status on the Permanent Supportive Housing 
waitlist. There were no updates available at 
this time. Discussed other options such as the 
shelters, treatment, or behavioral health, but 
the client was not interested. 
 
 
City Hall 1 1 
Met with client to fill out Safe Camp 
paperwork. The client had recently been 
discharged from the hospital and was not 
feeling well. Clean and Safe advocated for 
same day placement. The client was accepted 
into Safe Camp on January 22. 
Ramada Inn - 
Diamond's 2 2 
Helped a couple move their belongings and 
emotional support animals to the Siegel 
Suites Nevadan through the Motel Assistance 
Program. Couple currently awaiting unit at 
the Cheryl Apartments. 
Siegel Suites - 
Victorian 1 0 
This client was experiencing unsheltered 
homelessness in Reno and was referred by the 
City’s HAND team to Clean and Safe for the 
Motel Assistance Program, while they were 
awaiting a move-in date at Silverada Manor. 
The client is blind and previously completed a 
training program in Sparks to learn essential 
skills, such as navigation, and prefers to stay 
in Sparks as they are familiar with the 
surrounding area.  
 
Arrived on site with the Sparks HOPE Team 
to meet with the client to discuss housing 
plan. The client is currently on the RHA 
waitlist and is waiting for their move-in date 
at Silverada Manor. 
6th Street and 
Elko Avenue 1 1 
Client received two bus passes to attend 
appointments for intake assessments for the 
Crossroads program.  
CARES Campus 1 0 
Met with client to take a photo of their ID and 
send it to the Washoe County Permanent 
Supportive Housing team, because staff were 
not on site to do it.  
Total 25 10  
Enforcement and Compliance 
Reno Police Department 
Reno Police Department’s Community Action and Outreach (CAO) and Mobile Engagement 
Team (MET) outcomes:  
• Unsheltered Contacts: 99 
• Posted Occupied Vehicles: 51 
• Vehicles Towed: 10 
• Citations: 135 
• Felony Arrests: 29 
• Misdemeanor Arrests: 44 
Park and River Rangers 
In January, the Park and River Rangers conducted 739 site-visits. The Park and River Rangers 
made 118 interactions with unsheltered individuals, which included issuing warnings, citations, 
or providing service referrals.   
Park and River Rangers enforcement efforts in City Parks and along the Truckee River: 
• Citations issued: 16
o 14 citations issued for sitting,
lying, sleeping, or camping
on a public place
• Park exclusions issued: 3
o 2 Idlewild Park
o 1 Brodhead Park
Code Enforcement 
Code Enforcement cases related to homeless related concerns on private property: 
• Code Enforcement Cases: 37
• Courtesy Letters: 19
• Warning of Violation: 11
• First Administrative Citation: 2
• Second Administrative Citation: 0
• Third Administrative Citation: 2
Allied Universal Security 
There are two Allied Universal Security officers dedicated to Clean and Safe, patrolling chronic 
hotspots, monitoring recent cleanup efforts, and issue written notices to encampments in public 
spaces. Notices support expediating enforcement efforts.  
Location Site Visits Individual 
Interactions 
Notices 
Issued 
9th Street to Valley Road, footpath 8 6 2 
Gentry Way and Kietzke Lane 10 3 0 
Oddie Blvd and Silverada Blvd 8 10 4 
Sage Street and Railroad 7 6 2 
Highland Avenue and Evans Avenue 9 8 6 
Sierra Center Parkway bridge 7 0 0 
Neil Road and Delucchi Lane bridge 7 0 2 
West Fourth Street and Stoker Avenue 6 9 0 
Wells Underpass from 4th Street to 5th Street 3 0 0 
Stewart Park 1 0 0 
Wrondel Way and Hubbard Way 2 0 0 
Wrondel Way and Linden Street 1 0 0 
Galletti Way and Railroad 1 0 0 
Fantastic Drive and Cannan Street 2 0 0 
Paradise Drive 1 0 0 
Aitken Street and 2nd Street alleyway 1 0 0 
9th Street and Quincy Street 1 0 0 
4th Street, 5th Street, and Ferrari Street 10 0 0 
Third Street and Vine Street 2 0 0 
Pueblo Street and Wells Avenue 1 0 0 
La Rue Avenue and Virginia Street 1 2 1 
Orr Ditch, along West 4th Street 1 2 0 
McCarran Avenue and 7th Street culvert 6 0 0 
Total 96 46 17 
Maintenance and Restoration 
In January, field coordination included 39 activities, including cleanup efforts (20), issuing 
notices (1), site assessments (16), and storing personal property (2).  
Team Cleanups Notices Issued Yards of Trash 
Clean and Safe 20 1 22 
Park and River Rangers N/A N/A 79 
Qual-Econ (Service Provider) 2 N/A 60 
Total 22 1 161 
Location Dates Visited Visits 
2500 Tampa Way 1/9 1 
300 Holcomb Street 1/2 1 
580 East Moana Lane 1/9 1 
95 Gentry Way 1/7 1 
9th Street to Wells Avenue, footpath 1/6 1 
Kings Row and McCarran Blvd 1/9 1 
Old Virginia Road 1/20 1 
Sutro Street and Wells Avenue 1/20 1 
Wells Avenue and I80 Off-ramp 1/20 1 
Yori Avenue and Gentry Way 1/7 1 
4th Street and Ferrari Street 1/20 1 
4th Street and Stoker Avenue 1/5, 1/6, 1/15 3 
Gentry Way and Kietzke Lane 1/9 1 
Highland Avenue and Evans Avenue 1/2, 1/5, 1/6, 1/13, 1/15 5 
Neil Road and Delucchi Lane bridge 1/9 1 
Northtowne Lane 1/5 1 
Oddie Blvd and Silverada Blvd 1/5 1 
Along the Railroad from Record Street to Wells Avenue 1/13 1 
Sage Street and Railroad 1/2, 1/5, 1/7, 1/13 4 
West Fourth Street and McCarran Blvd 1/7 1 
Total 29 
Large Clean-Up Operations 
Large clean-up operations include 3 or more established encampments and/or large amounts of 
debris, which require the Clean and Safe provider’s services.  
West 4th Street and McCarran Blvd, along Truckee River and Sage Street and Railroad  
• Number of Notices Issued: 4
• Number of Yards of Trash Collected: 40
 
 
o Area to be spot cleaned by Karma Box  
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Highland Avenue and Evans Avenue 
• Number of Notices Issued: 10 
• Number of Yards of Trash Collected: 20 

Union Pacific Clean-Up 
The City of Reno has monthly coordinated clean-up efforts with Union Pacific. Areas address in 
January includes the ReTrac Corridor from Dickerson Road to Commercial Row, Dickerson 
Road along the train tracks and West Fourth Street from Summit Ridge Drive to Stagg Lane, 
along the train tracks. 
