 
 
Memorandum 
DATE: March 17, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH:  Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Chris Pingree, Director of Development Services  
DEPT:  Development Services Department     
SUBJECT: LDC26-00033 (Trego Grid Battery Energy Storage System) 
The purpose of this memo is to provide a status update on the Trego Grid Battery Energy Storage 
System (case # LDC26-00033). The Planning Commission reviewed and unanimously approved 
the conditional use permit (CUP) request on March 4, 2026. The CUP allows the establishment 
of a new 200 MW lithium-ion Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) with a supporting 
substation and 120 kV connection to the abutting NV Energy Mira Loma substation. The BESS 
facility will utilize existing energy on the grid to charge batteries during low peak demands and 
provide energy during high peak demands, serving as a peaking power plant to provide system 
stability to the overall grid. The BESS system consists of 256 Tesla Megapack Units across 16-
unit pods, which are stepped up the hillside to reduce grading and lesson visual impact.  
A determination of appropriate compatibility with adjacent residential land uses (Talus Valley 
East residential subdivision) was made by the Planning Commission. Specifically evaluated were 
concerns regarding fire safety, noise, operations, decommissioning, feral horse management, 
screening, site design, and comments provided by the Ward 3 Neighborhood Advisory Board 
(NAB). The Reno Fire Marshal, John Beck, provided a memo outlining no concerns with the 
BESS project as conditioned. Mr. Beck was in attendance at the Planning Commission and 
answered numerous questions from the Commissioners regarding public safety concerns.  
Following Planning Commission approval, the application will be reviewed by the Regional 
Planning Commission for Regional Plan conformance. As the BESS facility is abutting the 
existing Mira Loma substation, it is considered an expansion of existing transmission 
infrastructure. A corresponding application for annexation of the site is scheduled for Council 
review on April 22, 2026. Annexation of the site would ensure that the associated tax revenue is 
allocated to the City and that City services are provided. The Fiscal Impact Analysis estimates 

 
 
general fund revenue of $4.2 million dollars and street fund revenue of $1.3 million dollars over 
a 20-year period.   