Memorandum 
DATE: March 17, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager  
FROM: Nathan Ullyot, Director  
Riplee Foli, Office Assistant II 
Matt Brezina, Parks Manager 
DEPT:  Parks and Recreation     
SUBJECT: Park Partners Pilot Program at Oxbow and Summit Ridge Park 
Purpose 
This memo outlines a new community engagement pilot program that will be launched at Oxbow 
Nature Study and Summit Ridge Park in April called the Park Partners program.  The purpose of 
this program is to create a safe and easy way to encourage community members to report safety 
concerns or maintenance issues they find while visiting the park. After initial engagement staff 
will seek to connect volunteers with more intentional involvement that will support efficiencies 
and free up staff bandwidth for more critical and technical maintenance tasks. 
Initial Steps 
The program is expected to roll out in early April 2026 with a brief media event put on by the 
Communications Department and installation of signs at Oxbow Nature Study and Summit 
Ridge Park.  Signs will be installed in March and will include examples of incidents to report 
along with the correct phone numbers connecting the citizen to the appropriate City of Reno 
(City) department.  Additionally, a QR code on the sign will send the reporting party directly to 
Reno Direct for notification and future tracking purposes. 
Concerned citizens that show a pattern of reporting may be contacted by Parks staff and invited 
to participate in a volunteer program that will further engage them in the care and upkeep of the 
parks.  Engagement tools to be presented to the volunteers may include City labeled safety vests, 
litter collection tools, and gloves.    

The pilot program at Oxbow Nature Study and Summit Ridge Park will run through December 
2026, upon which staff will evaluate the quantity of service requests reported to the Parks 
Department, along with the quantity of dedicated volunteers that took part in the Park Partners 
program.  Quarterly updates will be presented to Reno City Council. 
Future Opportunities 
Should the program prove successful, Parks staff will expand to other highly visited parks, such 
as Teglia’s Paradise Park and Virginia Lake Park.  The program will be identified on the City 
website with detailed instructions of how and where to participate.  Depending on participation, 
Park Staff and Park Rangers may create community engagement workshops to show community 
members what issues to look for and how to report to the correct department.   
For volunteers who desire to be engaged at a deeper level, volunteer processing will allow them 
to support staff by opening, closing and stocking public restrooms. Along with direct reporting to 
park maintenance staff and Park Rangers.   
Signage 
 
