Memorandum 
DATE: March 27, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council  
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Lauren Knox, Senior Planner 
DEPT:  Development Services     
SUBJECT: Master Plan Amendment for Conformance  
Background 
A master plan amendment case (LDC26-00043) will be going before the Planning Commission 
on April 1st, 2026, to address conformance issues with the updated Truckee Meadows Regional 
Plan, and to address state law changes from the 2025 Legislative Session. This will be processed 
consistent with how similar master plan amendments were processed in the past, but staff wanted 
to ensure Council was informed of this before the Planning Commission hearing. The 
amendments are intended to be targeted to address the conformance items. This is not intended to 
be a full-scale update to the master plan.  
Discussion 
A brief description of the proposed amendments are as follows: 
Regional Plan Conformance 
As part of the 2024 Truckee Meadows Regional Plan Update, each jurisdictional master plan 
must be submitted to the Truckee Meadows Regional Planning Agency (TMRPA) for a 
conformance review to identify if any changes are needed to the master plan following the 
update to the Regional Plan per NRS 278.028. TMRPA staff has reviewed the ReImagine Reno 
Master Plan and found the plan in conformance with the Regional Plan with a list of scheduled 
additions. The proposed amendments to the master plan address this list as follows: 
• Amendment to include recognition of Natural Resource Consideration Areas (NRCA) 
found in Policy NR4 of the Regional Plan.  

• Amendment to reference and utilize the “Integrated Source Water and 319(h) Watershed 
Protection Plan for Public Water Systems and the Truckee River in the Truckee Meadows” 
to promote consideration of critical source water protection areas.  
• Amendment to include references to the Truckee Meadows Trails Plan as a resource. 
• All maps throughout the master plan depicting the City’s Sphere of Influence (SOI) have 
been amended to reflect the new SOI. 
State Law Conformance 
Assembly Bill 540 (AB 540) altered the way that affordable housing is defined in state law by 
expanding the housing affordability tiers and referring to the new structure as attainable housing.  
Certain policies and narratives were amended to better incorporate state law changes requiring the 
master plan to address  the broader concept of "attainable housing,” while still recognizing that 
affordable housing requires added focus due to community needs and the federal and state funding 
differences and references. 
 
Assembly Bill 96 (AB96) requires heat mitigation to be addressed in the Master Plan.  The 
ReImagine Reno Master Plan already includes many policies regarding urban heat, sustainable 
development, and climate change, which all provide policy direction related to heat mitigation. 
Certain policies were amended to further enhance heat mitigation needs, and a new “Planning for 
Heat” callout narratives was included  to describe the overarching heat mitigation concepts and 
provides a guide to key policies that impact each interaction. A new policy addition, Policy 6.2L, 
and accompanying implementation plan measure is proposed to target the discussion regarding 
access to cooling spaces and public drinking water, as required by AB 96.  
Future Amendments Anticipated 
Though this master plan amendment is intended to be limited and targeted to key conformance 
updates that keep the master plan aligned with the Regional Plan and state law, through this process 
staff has recognized that a more full-scale update to the master plan may be needed. Staff believes 
this will be more appropriate following adoption of the new Strategic Plan and with additional 
time. The proposed amendments discus sed in this staff report were necessary to be completed 
promptly due to state law and regional planning-related deadlines.   
Next Steps 
Once this item is reviewed by the Planning Commission, it will come before the City Council for 
approval before going to the Truckee Meadows Regional Planning Agency (TMRPA) for a 
conformance review. Staff anticipates that the Council will hear this item on May 6th, 2026. The 
proposed redline changes and additional information will be included in the materials that will go 
before Council. 