 
 
Memorandum 
DATE:  March 27, 2026  
TO:   Mayor and City Council    
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM:  Calli Wilsey, Director of Policy and Strategy 
Jason Gortari, Urban Economist 
DEPT:   Office of Policy and Strategy       
SUBJECT: Monthly Economic Update: March 2026 
Staff is pleased to provide Council with this monthly update on key economic indicators. These 
updates aim to assist Council in making informed policy decisions by offering insights into 
interconnected topics such as the labor market, housing, tourism, consumer activity, and other 
critical economic drivers. 
 
This memo provides an economic update featuring the most recent local data as of March 2026, 
highlighting key metrics and trends shaping the region's economic outlook. Many economic 
indicators have a lag time between their occurrence and when that data is released. Additionally, 
the data is released at various times throughout each month. The monthly economic update 
memo is meant to highlight new information that has been released since the last memo. To help 
explain what is new in each of these monthly updates, these memos will include a table for each 
indicator that details the following: 
• The most recent date when the data for the indicator was released (See: Most Recent 
Release Date). 
• The month or timeframe that the most recent data released represents (See: Current Data 
Month). 
• If new data has not been released since the last memo, what version of the monthly memo 
you can find the most recent analysis (See: Latest Memo with Analysis); and  
• The date when the next data set is expected to be released (See: Next Release Date). 
  

 
 
Executive Summary:  
The latest economic data for the Reno -Sparks Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) indicates a 
moderating but still expanding economy  with growing uncertainty around how national trade 
policy and geopolitical tensions may impact the region at the local level moving forward. Listed 
below is a summary of key highlights across the major segments we monitor  relative to the Reno 
MSA:  
 
Labor Market: 
• Due to the annual benchmarking process, where prior-year survey data is revised to 
reflect actual reported figures, January 2026 job, employment, and unemployment data 
released from the Bureau of Labor Statistics experienced a longer-than-usual release lag 
during this time and this data will not be available until April. 
Tourism: 
• Despite a moderating economy, Reno’s tourism sector was positive in January 2026 with 
visitor volume up and gains in hotel occupancy, room rates, and gaming, driven by 
seasonal and group events. 
Housing: 
• Reno’s housing market remains stable but competitive with home prices holding steady, 
limited supply keeping it a seller’s market, and rising rents alongside slightly improved 
mortgage rates through February 2026. 
Consumer: 
• Consumer conditions remain mixed with strong wage growth and rising taxable sales 
supported by real income gains, while lower consumer confidence creates some 
uncertainty in the outlook. 
 
Economic Signals: 
 
Upside Cushions   Downside Risks  
• Housing Price Stability 
• Stable Inflation  
• Stable Labor Market 
• Increasing Wages  
• Iran War/Oil Prices 
• National Policy Uncertainty 
• Low Housing Supply 
• Low Consumer Confidence 
 
This Month’s Indicators: 
Labor Market 
Key indicators: unemployment, initial claims, job openings, and employment.  
• Due to the annual benchmarking process, where prior-year survey data is revised to reflect 
actual reported figures, January 2026 job, employment, and unemployment data 
experienced a longer-than-usual release lag and will not be available until April. 
• In February 2026, Nevada reported 1 0,745 initial claims for unemployment insurance, a 
16.9 percent increase from January and unchanged compared to February 2025. 
 
 
o Although this represents a notable over -the-month decline, seasonal decreases in 
claims during February and March are typical. Claims remain close to the 12-month 
average (11,865) and are low by historical standards. 
• The Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation (DETR) reported two Worker 
Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) notices in Reno.  Water Safety Corp of 
Nevada plans to lay off 35 employees on April 1, and SK Food Group will lay off 209 
workers by the end of April.  
 
Broader Implication to the City: 
• Positive job growth signals expanding industries, increased business activity, a growing 
labor market, and stronger consumer spending, which boosts City revenues through higher 
sales taxes and business -related fees. A low unemployment rate and fewer initia l claims 
indicate a healthy labor market, supporting household spending and sustaining local 
revenue growth. 
 
Indicator Source Most Recent 
Release Date 
Current 
Data 
Month 
Latest 
Memo with 
Analysis 
Next 
Release 
Date 
Employment - Reno MSA BLS-
CES 
2/6/2026 Dec. 2025 Last Memo 4/8/2026 
Unemployment Rate - Reno 
MSA 
BLS-
LAUS 
2/6/2026 Dec. 2025 Last Memo 4/8/2026 
Initial Claims - Nevada DOL 3/1/2026 Feb. 2026 This Memo 4/1/2026 
Job Openings - Nevada BLS-
JOLTS 
2/19/2026 Dec. 2025 Last Memo 3/31/2026 
Tourism 
Key indicators: visitor volume, hotel occupancy rate, avg. daily room rate-hotels, and gaming win.  
• Even in a challenging economic climate, tourism activity in the Reno MSA was positive in 
January with several key indicators showing over-the-year gains. 
• In January 2026, the Reno MSA welcomed 307,686 visitors, an increase of 33,637 visitors 
from January 2025, or a 12.3 percent increase. 
o Key events and activities that typically attract visitors during the month of January 
include ski season, the Sheep Show, American Bus Association 100th anniversary 
celebration, and Wolf Pack basketball games. 
• In January 2026, hotel occupancy rates increased to 58.9 percent, marking a 5.3 percent 
increase when compared to January 2025. 
• The average daily room rates for hotels in January were $137.19 per night, up $1.76 over-
the-year and up by $9.29 from December.  
• Reno’s gaming win in January increased by $ 1.9 million (2.9 percent) compared to last 
year and increased by $4.3 million (6.6 percent) from December.  
• Overall, Reno continues to demonstrate resilience in a shifting economy. While tourism 
over the past year has been modest, strong group demand and steady leisure visitation have 
supported tourism stability in the Reno MSA. 
 
 
 
Broader Implication to the City: 
• Tourism drives local spending that directly supports City revenues through room, sales, 
and property-related taxes, business license fees , and a variety of other fees the City 
collects. Strong visitor activity benefits hotels, restaurants, and entertainment venues, 
generating ripple effects across the local economy which helps sustain vital public services. 
 
Indicator Source Most Recent 
Release 
Date 
Current 
Data 
Month 
Latest 
Memo with 
Analysis 
 
Next Release 
Date 
Visitor V olume RSCV A 2/27/2026 Jan. 2026 This Memo 3/27/2026 
Hotel Occupancy Rate RSCV A 2/27/2026 Jan. 2026 This Memo 3/27/2026 
Avg. Daily Room Rate - Hotels RSCV A 2/27/2026 Jan. 2026 This Memo 3/27/2026 
Gaming Win - Reno GCB 2/27/2026 Jan. 2026  This Memo 3/27/2026 
Housing 
Key indicators: avg. single-family home prices, median days on market, 30-day fixed mortgage 
rates, and avg. apartment rent. 
• Overall, this month’s Reno MSA housing data reflects stabilizing prices. However, for 
buyers, competition remains strong for single family homes priced near the average due to 
limited supply.  
• In February 2026, the average value of a single-family home reached $566,802 in the Reno 
MSA, down 0.4 percent over-the-year and up 0.1 percent over-the-month. 
• In February, the median time for a single-family home in Reno to go under contract was 
72 days, 7 days longer than last February and 2 days slower than the national average.  
o This marks the eleventh consecutive month that homes are taking longer to sell 
compared to last year. 
o Inventory remained tight on single family residents and condo/townhomes at just 
2.0 months of supply, affirming that we are still in a seller’s market despite slower 
selling times. 
• As of February 2026, the average 30 -year fixed mortgage rate is 5.98 percent, slightly 
lower than the previous month and down from 6.76 percent this time last year. 
• The average rent for all apartment types in the Reno MSA is $1, 769, reflecting an 8.4 
percent or $ 137 increase over-the-year. Rents have now increased for 12 consecutive 
months. 
 
Broader Implication to the City: 
• The health of the housing market impacts construction activity and related revenues, such 
as building permits and real property transfer taxes. Stable home values help maintain the 
property tax base  to fund essential City services.  Rising rents and limited supply can 
highlight ongoing affordability challenges that affect residents’ discretionary spending and 
workforce housing needs. 
 
 
 
Indicator Source Most 
Recent 
Release 
Date 
Current 
Data 
Month 
Latest 
Memo with 
Analysis 
Next 
Release 
Date 
Avg. Single Family Home Prices Zillow 3/16/2026 Feb. 2026 This Memo 4/16/2026 
Median Days on Market Realtor.com 3/8/2026 Feb. 2026 This Memo 4/8/2026 
Avg. Apartment Rent Prices  Zillow 3/16/2026 Feb. 2026 This Memo 4/16/2026 
30-Day Fixed Mortgage Rates Freddie Mac 3/8/2026 Feb. 2026 This Memo 4/6/2026 
Consumer 
Key indicators: Consumer Confidence Index (CCI), Washoe taxable sales, headline inflation, and 
avg. weekly wages in the Reno MSA.  
• The Nevada Department of Taxation continues to implement their new tax system, 
“Modernize Your Nevada Tax” (MYNT). 
o The system shift continues to complicate historical comparisons. 
o Washoe County reported $1.3 billion in total taxable sales for December, up 9.4 
percent over-the-year and up 18.8 percent from November. 
• The Bureau of Labor Statistics' (BLS) Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages 
(QCEW) program publishes a quarterly count of employment and wages reported by 
employers. This data is available at the county, MSA, state, and national levels by 
industry.  
o The QCEW dataset has an approximate six-month lag but is often used as a 
benchmark for other BLS survey programs because it is based on actual counts of 
employment and wages rather than estimates or survey-based estimates. 
o Using the most recent QCEW data, the third quarter of 2025 (2025:Q3) shows 
that average weekly wages across all industries in the Reno MSA continued to 
rise. 
o As of 2025: Q3, average weekly wages in the Reno MSA reached $1,415, up 
$125 or 6.4 percent over-the-year, outpacing both the national growth rate of 4.7 
percent and state growth rate of 4.3 percent. 
o Wages in the Reno MSA have consistently outpaced inflation through 2025, 
meaning workers are seeing real wage gains, though the rapid pace seen in the 
immediate post-pandemic years has cooled slightly to a stable and healthy rate. 
• The Consumer Confidence Index (CCI) measures how optimistic or pessimistic 
consumers feel about the economy and their personal finances based on surveys of 
current conditions and future expectations. A value above 100 indicates greater consumer 
confidence compared to a baseline, while a value below 100 reflects lower confidence 
and potential caution in spending. The index is based on a five-question survey with two 
questions related to present conditions and three questions related to future expectations. 
o In February 2026, the CCI was 91.2, representing an 8.9-point decrease over-the-
year and a 2.2-point decrease from an upwardly revised January. 
o January’s reading is the lowest level since May 2014, which was more than 11 
years ago. 
o The CCI is based on five core survey components: two questions measuring 
current business and employment conditions (the “Present Situation”), and three 
 
 
questions assessing expectations for business conditions, employment, and 
household income over the next six months. 
o Four of five components increased in February, contributing to the overall 
increase in the index from January. All five measures remained well below the 
four-year peak achieved in November 2024 which translated to a CCI of 112.8. 
o Overall, confidence ticked up in February after falling in January, as consumers’ 
pessimistic expectations for the future eased somewhat. 
• U.S. headline, seasonally adjusted inflation was 2.4 percent over-the-year in February 
2026, up from 2.1 percent in January, a 0.3 percentage point increase from the prior 
month 
o February’s inflation report came in as expected and provides a baseline before any 
potential impacts from the Iran conflict begin to affect prices. 
o While this month’s inflation report was broadly stable, prices rose modestly for 
shelter and services while several goods categories, including used vehicles and 
auto insurance, saw declines. 
 
Broader Implication to the City: 
• Higher wages strengthen Reno’s economy by boosting consumer spending and increasing 
sales tax revenues. Inflation is the rate at which prices for goods and services rise. 
However, inflation erodes consumer purchasing power and increases production costs for 
businesses. Unstable prices also greatly increase the uncertainty in forecasting City 
revenues and optimizing expenditures. Together, wage growth, inflation, and consumer 
spending shape overall consumer confidence, which directly influences the future 
revenue outlook. 
Indicator Source Most 
Recent 
Release 
Date 
Current 
Data 
Month 
This Memo Next 
Release 
Date 
Taxable Sales Taxation 3/1/2026 Dec. 2025 This Memo 4/1/2026 
Average Weekly Wages  BLS-QCEW 3/10/2026 2025:Q3 This Memo 6/2/2026 
Consumer Confidence 
Index 
Conference 
Board 
2/27/2026 Feb. 2026  This Memo 3/30/2026 
Headline Inflation BLS-CPI 3/11/2026 Feb. 2026 This Memo 4/10/2026 
Special Topic: When Wages Outpace Inflation - What It Means for Taxable Sales 
In the coming months, we will examine key economic variables that influence taxable sales, as 
sales tax remains one of the largest sources of revenue for local governments.  
• In light of the recent release of average weekly wages for the Reno MSA through the third 
quarter of 2025, we analyze how inflation has impacted real wage gains in the region. 
• Real wage gains refer to increases in workers’ earnings after accounting for inflation, 
essentially showing how much purchasing power improves over time. 
• When wage growth outpaces inflation, households have more real disposable income. 
These additional dollars are more likely to be spent, particularly on discretionary goods 
 
 
and services, many of which are subject to sales tax, thereby supporting taxable sales 
growth. 
• The slowdown in inflation over the past two years has been positive for workers. While 
average weekly wages in the Reno MSA have continued to increase, they did not 
consistently keep pace with inflation until recently. Strong wage growth over the past two 
years has allowed earnings to exceed the longer-term inflation trend, reversing the erosion 
in real wages experienced over the previous few years. 
• Using data from the BLS’s QCEW  survey and the Consumer Price Index for All Urban 
Consumers (CPI -U), West Region, the latest figures show nominal wages in the Reno 
Sparks MSA increased by 6.4 percent over the past 12 months as of the third quarter of 
2025, while inflation stood at 3.2 percent over the same period. When wage growth exceeds 
inflation, workers experience an increase in purchasing power. 
• Several factors influence nominal wage growth and inflation, including labor market 
conditions, labor costs, and shifts in employment composition. For example, in the fourth 
quarter of 2020, nominal wages in the Reno MSA increased 18.1 percent over -the-year 
while inflation was just 1.4 percent, resulting in a record high gap of 16.7 percentage points, 
largely driven by pandemic-related labor market disruptions. 
• Conversely, the largest negative gap occurred in the fourth quarter of 2022, when nominal 
wages declined by 2.3 percent over the year while inflation peaked at 7.2 percent, 
producing a gap of negative 9.5 percentage points. During periods like this, purcha sing 
power declines, which can constrain consumer spending and dampen taxable sales. 
Why this matters for taxable sales: 
• Higher real wages increase household purchasing power, particularly for middle- and 
lower-income households that tend to spend a larger share of additional income. 
• Discretionary spending such as retail, dining, and services is more sensitive to real income 
gains and is largely taxable. 
• As real incomes rise, consumers are more likely to shift from essential only spending to 
broader consumption, expanding the taxable base. 
• Sustained real wage growth can also improve consumer confidence, further reinforcing 
spending activity. 
 
 
 
