 
 
Memorandum 
DATE:  March 27, 2026 
TO:   Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH:  Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM:  Nathan Ullyot, Director 
Matt Brezina, Parks Manager 
DEPT:  Parks and Recreation Department 
SUBJECT:  Revisions of Reno Municipal Code Section 8.32(Trees and Shrubs) 
Background 
In early 2025, staff began a review and update of Title 8 Section 32 of the Reno Municipal Code 
(RMC 8.32) regarding the promotion and protection of trees in public spaces.  The goal of this 
effort is to modernize language and provide the Urban Forester with the tools and protection 
needed to preserve our urban canopy. 
The language drafted by staff was presented to the Reno Urban Forestry Commission in 
December for feedback and recommended changes.  Comments were positive and constructive, 
and those changes were included in the final draft submitted to the City Attorney’s Office (CAO) 
for review in January. CAO comments were provided to staff, and changes have been 
implemented. 
 
Next Steps 
Staff is moving through the steps that are appropriate to bring this update to City Council.  Those 
steps include:  
• Urban Forestry staff presented the recommended changes to Department heads on March 
16, highlighting some of the more substantial changes that may affect other departments’ 
operations and stakeholder groups.   
• Department heads are expected to submit constructive feedback and recommendations by 
March 27, including any suggestions for further public outreach that aligns with recent 
code updates. 

 
 
• Parks and Urban Forestry staff will present the update at Council policy briefings in 
April. 
• Staff will subsequently coordinate public outreach initiatives with stakeholder groups.   
• At the conclusion of public outreach staff will incorporate appropriate changes and begin 
the process of Urban Forestry Commission recommendation and Council Adoption.  
• Council adoption will follow which will require a first and second reading of the 
ordinance before adoption is complete. 
 
 