 
 
                          
Memorandum 
DATE:  April 15, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council  
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Nathan Ullyot, Parks and Recreation Director  
Karina Mercier, Project Manager – Park Planner 
DEPT:  Parks and Recreation     
SUBJECT: Update on the Progress of the Parks Service Plan Development 
This memo is intended to provide Council an update on the development of the Parks Service 
Plan to investigate the feasibility of a Park District that was approved via a professional services 
agreement with PROS Consulting, Inc on June 4, 2025. The professional services agreement 
with a total cost of $223,550 has been offset by contributions from Washoe County in the amount 
of $100,000 and from the Redevelopment Agency in the amount of $60,000 which have been 
formally received by the Parks and Recreation Department.  
Since Council approval of the agreement, City Parks staff has maintained regular meetings with 
Washoe County and City of Sparks staff. The scope of collaboration has since broadened to 
include representatives from the Sun Valley General Improvement District.  PROS Consulting 
has also held stakeholder interviews with representatives of the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony. 
Together with PROS Consulting the team has completed the initial stakeholder interviews, data 
requests, preliminary site visits and facility assessments. The feedback received from elected 
officials and stakeholders is that there is a strong potential value in a regional park district, but 
that support for a ballot initiative depends on credible, transparent communication that 
demonstrates tangible, jurisdiction-specific benefits.  
Survey 
A key focus in this stage of the Service Plan’s development has been surveying. The consultant 
has completed the survey, which was mailed directly to pre-selected residents, ensuring that 
results accurately reflect the demographics of our region. The survey required a minimum of 600 

 
 
responses from the pre-selected groups.  Of the minimum responses required, 300 were needed 
from Reno, 150 from unincorporated Washoe County, and 150 from Sparks. At the completion of 
the process there were a total of 748 surveys collected utilizing random sampling to ensure 
statistically significant and valid results that represent the region’s population.   
Staff from both the Cities and County also started an additional community survey to ensure all 
residents could participate. This accessible version was offered in Spanish as well. Alongside the 
survey, they created a joint landing page at OurParksNV .org that explains what a Service Plan is 
and outlines the possible benefits of a new park district. The survey ended on March 13, 2026. 
Next Steps 
The PROS Consulting team has provided a draft Levels of Service analysis which is being 
reviewed and verified by each jurisdiction. Additionally, PROS Consulting is working to analyze 
the feedback received through the surveys. PROS Consulting will present these findings and the 
status of the Service Plan at a concurrent meeting with all the jurisdiction’s Recreation and Parks 
boards which is tentatively scheduled for April 30, 2026. Councils/Commissions are invited to 
attend, and a memo will be sent to Council summarizing the meeting’s content.   
The Redevelopment Agency Advisory Board (RAAB) has also requested an update from staff.  
Department staff will present along with PROS Consulting at the May 4 RAAB meeting.   
The project is on track for completion by August 2026.  Should Council desire more detail 
regarding the project tasks and timeline, staff can provide the project schedule.                                              