Memorandum 
DATE: April 15, 2026 
TO:  Mayor and City Council 
THROUGH:
 Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM: Suzanne Groneman, Environmental Services Manager 
Cynthia Esparza, Director 
DEPT:  Community Engagement & Services 
SUBJECT: Roadway Debris and Litter 
This memo provides an overview of the issue of unsecured loads contributing to roadway debris 
and litter in Reno, summarizes applicable Nevada rules, outlines actions taken to date, and 
outlines the next steps to reduce public safety risks and environmental impacts. 
Unsecured and uncovered loads from both commercial haulers and other vehicles contribute to 
roadway debris along key corridors, particularly Interstate 80 and routes leading to the landfill. 
Roadway debris creates safety hazards, vehicle damage, cleanup costs, and negatively impacts 
the environment, including air quality from particulate matters. 
Nevada Regulations 
Currently Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) 444.615 and the Nevada Administrative Code (NAC) 
444.629 prohibit the unlawful disposal of waste, including littering, in the public right-of-way
. 
Waste must be stored or loaded to prevent any part from falling from a vehicle. This includes the 
use of tarps, covers, or other securing mechanisms.  
Enforcement 
Staff requested records from the Nevada Department of Public Safety, which were provided. In 
the last 24 months, 75 citations were issued related to the above-referenced law. While 
enforcement is occurring, roadway debris continues to be an issue in the region, indicating that 
education and prevention are needed to complement enforcement.  

 
 
Waste Management has the authority at Lockwood Landfill to refuse service to any customer 
with an unsecured load and may also issue citations and fines. Waste Management has 
committed to tracking instances of unsecured loads to better evaluate the scale of the issue.   
Current Efforts 
 
To facilitate prompt resolution, City of Reno, Waste Management, and Nevada Department of 
Transportation staff met to discuss reporting needs and maintenance schedules. As a result, 
several areas reported by residents along I-80 were addressed on March 7, 2026. Additionally, 
several other efforts are in progress:  
• Regional Coordination: Staff is developing a contact list of commercial haulers operating 
in the region to hold a planning coordination call to align expectations, share 
requirements, and reinforce compliance standards, as well as address ongoing 
communication. 
• Public Communications: The City will post reminders ahead of Waste Management's free 
dump days, occurring April 16-25, 2026. Messaging will focus on safety and 
requirements for securing loads.  
• Franchise Partner Support: Waste Management included messaging in a recent bill insert 
to remind customers to cover and secure their loads. 
• Funding Support: Staff is seeking funding to support a more comprehensive program, 
including enforcement tracking, public education, and clean-ups with regional partners. 
Staff submitted a funding application and are awaiting an update. 
 
Further updates will be provided as information becomes available. 
 
 