Memorandum 
DATE:  April 21, 2026  
TO:   Mayor and City Council    
THROUGH: Jackie Bryant, City Manager 
FROM:  John Flansberg, Regional Infrastructure Administrator 
    Kayla Garcia, Senior Management Analyst  
DEPT:   Regional Infrastructure       
SUBJECT:  Sewer Connection Fee Sufficiency Analysis  
The Sewer Connection Fee Sufficiency Analysis has been completed with the resulting 
recommendation that the current connection fees are sufficient for the three sewer service areas 
Truckee Meadows Water Reclamation Facility (TMWRF), Truckee Meadows Water 
Reclamation Facility (TMWRF)  + Verdi, and Reno Stead Water Reclamation Facility (RSWRF) 
and no additional increases outside of annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) adjustments for 
inflation are recommended at this time. 
 
Sewer connection fees are calculated based on the cost of past and future capital improvements 
to the sewer collection system and treatment plants divided by the remaining sewer capacity 
available in equivalent dwelling units (single-family home).  Currently, a single-family home 
consumes an average capacity of 165 gallons per day.  The analysis utilizes a minimum planning 
horizon of 20 years.   
 
Truckee Meadows Water Reclamation Facility (TMWRF): 
• Reno Existing Capacity = 25.1 million gallons per day (MGD) 
• Reno Total Utilized Capacity = 19.0 MGD 
• Reno Remaining Capacity = 6.1 MGD; equivalent of 36,970 homes 
• Historical growth (TMWRF): 1,200 homes per year; sewer capacity = +/- 30 years. 
 
Reno-Stead Water Reclamation Facility (RSWRF): 
• Existing Capacity = 4.0 MGD (after completion of APWF) 
• Total Utilized Capacity = 2.1 MGD 
• Remaining Capacity = 1.9 MGD; equivalent of 11,515 homes 
• Historical growth (RSWRF): 380 homes per year; sewer capacity = +/- 30 years. 
 

In prior connection fee models, the RSWRF sewershed area had planned for growth up to 6 
MGD.  Based on the historical growth over the past 6 years of approximately 380 homes per 
year, it is reasonable to assume that 4 MGD RSWRF sewer capacity will meet our 20-year need.  
This change removed a significant amount of costs related to expansion projects to expand 
RSWRF from 4MGD to 6MGD in the later years of the 20-year model.   
 
The model also had the Advanced Purified Water Facility (APWF) project costs allocated at a 
50/50 cost share between user fees and connection fees.  This cost share was used based on the 
perspective of treatment capacity at RSWRF (water-in) with the capacity increasing from 2 
MGD to 4 MGD.  Upon further review and adjusting costs based on the perspective of “water 
out”, the new connections will receive a larger benefit because a portion of the existing effluent 
flows out of RSWRF go to irrigation of Sierra Sage Golf Course, North Valleys Sports Complex, 
and Mayors Park as well as non-potable construction water which are all costs the current users 
pay.  The existing users primarily benefit from APWF during the late fall through early spring 
when water currently flows to Swan Lake.  APWF will now take those flows and treat to 
drinking water standards for injection into the American Flat aquifer reducing the discharge into 
Swan Lake.  For these reasons, the cost share allocation of APWF was changed to 30% user fee / 
70% connection fee to equitably reflect the benefit of the project to the project benefactor. 
 
Staff will be reaching out to industry groups to share the results of the sewer connection fee 
analysis including The Builders Association and Associated General Contractors.  We will 
collect feedback regarding growth projections and sewer financial modeling and then inform 
Council about any concerns that arise. 